---
title: "Titanium: all documentation guides"
layout: article
---

## Guide list

[Titanium documentation](https://github.com/clojurewerkz/titanium.docs) is organized as a number of guides, covering all kinds of topics.

We recommend that you read the following guides in this order:

 * [Getting Started](/articles/getting_started.html)
 * [Transaction Management](/articles/transactions.html)
 * [Configuring Titan](/articles/configuration.html) 
 * [Working with Vertices](/articles/vertices.html)
 * [Working with Edges](/articles/edges.html) 
 * [Defining Types](/articles/types.html)  
 * [Simple Graph Queries](/articles/queries.html)   
 * [Ogre Integration](/articles/ogre.html)    


#### [Getting started](/articles/getting_started.html)

An overview of Titanium with a quick tutorial that helps you to get
started with it. It should take about 10 minutes to read and study the
provided code examples.

#### [Transaction Management](/articles/transactions.html)

An in depth look into how Titanium handles transaction management.
Covers the basics and shows how to easily implement geometric backing
off for retrying transactions.

#### [Configuring Titanium](/articles/configuration.html) 

Titan can work with multiple backends, and each of these come with a
plethora of settings. Titanium steps out of your way and provides
several ways of easily configuring Titan.

#### [Working with Vertices](/articles/vertices.html)

Vertices are the pillars upon which your graph empire will rest. This
guide will go through how to create, remove, modify, and retrieve
vertices with Titanium.

#### [Working with Edges](/articles/edges.html) 

What would a graph library be if it didn't have a great cadre of
features for working with edges? This guide goes through the various
functions that Titanium provides to make working with edges as
graceful as possible.

#### [Defining Types](/articles/types.html)  

Types are the way in which you shape your raw data stuff and project
it into the database. This guide explores the various options
available to you as a developer for modeling your domain of choice.

#### [Simple Graph Queries](/articles/queries.html)   

If you're a speed demon and want to do your own query planning and
traversal, this guide is for you. It goes into the methods provided by
Titanium to perform simple queries. 

#### [Ogre Integration](/articles/ogre.html)    

[Ogre](http://ogre.clojurewerkz.org/) is a Clojure wrapper around the
[Gremlin traversal library](https://github.com/tinkerpop/gremlin/wiki).
Titanium is built on top of Ogre and both libraries were developed in
parallel. This guide explores exactly how delightfully well these two
libraries play with each other.
